$Id: README,v 1.2 2004/05/05 17:34:15 chrisp Exp $   -*- text -*-

 disktype Documentation README
===============================

This file describes how the disktype documentation is organized and
how the DocBook tools are used to generate readable formats.


 Basics
--------

The documentation consists of a single DocBook document, spread over
several physical files. This directory also includes style sheet
customizations and a Makefile to generate one-page HTML, multi-page
HTML, and LaTeX source from the DocBook source.

The document is written to DocBook XML 4.1.2. The main file is
disktype.xml, it references the other .xml files automatically.


 Requisites
------------

Five requisites are required to process the DocBook source:

 - GNU make

 - xsltproc (part of libxslt, http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/)

 - The DTD for DocBook XML (http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/)

 - The DocBook XSL Stylesheets originally created by Norman Walsh
   (http://docbook.sourceforge.net/projects/xsl/index.html)

 - The DB2LaTeX XSL Stylesheets (http://db2latex.sourceforge.net/)

To get the first four on Debian GNU/Linux, install the following
packages: make, xsltproc, docbook-xml, docbook-xsl.

To get the first four on Mac OS X with Fink, install the following
packages: libxslt, docbook-dtd, docbook-xsl. GNU make ships with
Mac OS X as part of the Developer Tools package.


 Path Setup
------------

xsltproc needs to find the DTD and the appropriate XSL stylesheet.

For the DTD, xsltproc's built in mechanisms are used. You must set the
environment variable SGML_CATALOG_FILES to point to a SGML-style
catalog file, which (directly or indirectly) maps the public
identifier used in the DOCTYPE to a file containing the DTD. The
recommended method is to create a file '.catalog' in your home
directory and point to the catalog file shipped with the DocBook DTD
from there. Examples:

  From my ~/.cshrc:

    setenv SGML_CATALOG_FILES ~/.catalog

  My ~/.catalog on a Mac OS X / Fink system:

    CATALOG "/sw/share/xml/dtd/docbookx/catalog"

  My ~/.catalog on a Debian GNU/Linux system:

    CATALOG "/usr/share/sgml/docbook/dtd/xml/4.1.2/docbook.cat"

Important: On a Debian "woody" system, you will need to edit the file
/usr/share/sgml/docbook/dtd/xml/4.1.2/docbook.cat and comment out the
DTDDECL lines, otherwise xsltproc will choke on them.

If you don't want to deal with all this, you can remove the "--nonet"
switch in the Makefile, and xsltproc will pull the DTD from the
Internet every time it is run.

To find the XSL stylesheets, you must edit the driver files
html-one.xsl, html-chunk.xsl, and latex.xsl. The HTML stylesheets are
in /usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh/html/ with the Debian
packages and in /sw/share/xml/xsldocbook-xsl/html/ with the Fink
packages.


EOF
